# Project-1
Group 4 project!


Our project started by looking to see the correlation between GDP and CO2 emissions. There was an expected trend of increased emissions correlating to increased GDP per state. We then decided to look to see what drove the increase in emissions and if there were more efficient ways to generate GDP without additional CO2 emissions. We started by separating industries out to see which were dominant in states with a high GDP to CO2 coefficient. We found that states that had a higher portion of their total GDP made up by private services-providing industries had a relatively high GDP when compared to their emissions. This led us to the conclusion that private services are an efficient producer of GDP when looking to limit CO2 output. Next we wanted to see what industries created a lot of CO2 emissions with limited GDP production. We found that when a large part of your economy comes from private goods-producing industries and natural resource mining, your state CO2 emissions are more likely to be high relative to your GDP. To conclude the industries portion of our project we found that if states want to increase their GDP while keeping emissions low, private services-providing industries should be the bulk of their economic growth.


We also wanted to look into the effect that renewable energy consumption had on a State's GDP to CO2 Emissions level. While we were creating a hypothesis about these two variables, we took in the comparison between renewable energy and non-renewable energy to CO2 emission levels. Renewable energy sources such as solar or wind power, emit little to no greenhouse gasses, but non-renewable energy, such as fossil fuels, we saw that the CO2 emissions skyrocket in comparison. Because of this, we hypothesized that there would be a positive correlation between renewable energy consumption and the GDP/CO2 emissions coefficient per state. 

Initially, we compared renewable energy consumption and state GDP in 2015. A lot of the data points were consolidated in one area, however, we can see that there is an overall trend showing an increase in renewable energy consumption following an increase in GDP. And in this small sample, we saw a fairly positive/statistically significant relationship between the two with a r value of 0.7243, and a p value well below 0.05. While based on this graph, one could make the conclusion that higher consumption of reusable energy correlates to a higher GDP per state, the further we dug into the data, the more unclear that correlation becomes. 

We then compared the renewable energy consumption to a State's GDP to CO2 emissions coefficient. Here is where we began to see a disconnect between the two and the inability to reject the null hypothesis. An r value from the linear regression model provides us with a correlation coefficient ranged between -1 and +1. From here, the closer you are to - or + 1 provides a reason to believe the two variables have a relationship to one another. In this case, however, we can see that our r value is closer to 0, with an r value of 0.3069. The closer it is to 0, the less likely we can determine a correlation between the two variables. 

With that in mind, we wanted to dig a bit deeper and see if a specific type of renewable energy, such as solar power, could make an impact on the GDP/CO2 emissions coefficient. We also wanted to see if there would be a comparison with a non-renewable energy source, such as coal. However, upon gathering the data for both solar power and coal consumption, we found that both sources of energy did not have a strong correlation with a State's GDP to CO2 emissions coefficient, going as far as to show coal with negative linear regression line. 

California was an interesting outlier, as the State consumed the most solar power in 2015 while having the one of the top GDP to CO2 emissions coefficients in the US. However, this is an outlier in comparison to the rest of the state datapoints solar utilization. There are a few factors to take into consideration when it comes to renewable energy. For example, solar power production/consumption is strong in California, with it being an outlier on the solar power consumption graph, but in a place such as Alaska, that does not receive the same share of sunlight, solar power would not be a viable option. In another scenario, the utilization of water to create energy through means of a dam or wind energy through a turbine would be nothing if a state didn’t have naturally flowing rivers or the State suffered from adverse weather. 

Based on the data present, we were not able to fully reject the null hypothesis regarding renewable energy and it's effect on a State's GDP to CO2 emissions. 

